DOC: Add support for documenting C/C++ via Doxygen & Breathe (#18884)
numpy/numpy: doc/source/docs/howto_document.rst

.. _`formatting standard`: https://numpydoc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/format.html
.. _example: https://numpydoc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/example.html

.. _doc_c_code:

Documenting C/C++ Code
**********************

> Recently, NumPy headed out to use Doxygen_ along with Sphinx due to the urgent need
> to generate C/C++ API reference documentation from comment blocks, especially with
> the most recent expansion in the use of SIMD, and also due to the future reliance on C++.
> Thanks to Breathe_, we were able to bind both worlds together at the lowest cost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NumPy uses Doxygen_ to parse specially-formatted C/C++ comment blocks. This generates
XML files, which are  converted by Breathe_ into RST, which is used by Sphinx.
```

**It takes three steps to complete the documentation process**:

1. Writing the comment blocks
-----------------------------

> Although there is still no commenting style set to follow, the Javadoc

Reviewer 2: Can we have a link to the Javadoc standard?

Reviewer 3: It wouldn't be very informative; since a lot of tags are not present in `doxygen`, like `@serialData`. Essentially in context it means do not use the alternative `doxygen` style format. So `\brief` is wrong, `@brief` is correct. The examples later clarify this usage.

Author: Can we add the following link as a reference at least?
https://www.oracle.com/technical-resources/articles/java/javadoc-tool.html

"A lot" sounds exaggerate, I would rather say "a few" instead. Well as long you keep the asterisks on the left and using the Javadoc tags names then you're following the Javadoc style, I think using the Qtdoc tag starter `\` or stick to Javadoc tag starter `@` would make any difference. However, Javadoc doesn't require tags `@brief` and `@details` which allows documenting most of our current comment blocks without making any changes.

Reviewer 3: Does that link make any sense to other contributors? Personally I skimmed it and it seems to reference API specifications which aren't relevant.. In fact most of the document seems spurious (Package level comments?)

We should feature the canonical:
https://www.doxygen.nl/manual/docblocks.html

More prominently.

Author: Javadoc is pretty known by most of the C++ developers, even libstdc++ using it. So just keeping https://www.doxygen.nl/manual/docblocks.html is enough for now.

is more preferable than the others due to the similarities with the current
existing non-indexed comment blocks.

.. note::

>    If you have never used Doxygen_ before, then maybe you need to take a quick
>    look at `"Documenting the code" <https://www.doxygen.nl/manual/docblocks.html>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Please see `"Documenting the code" <https://www.doxygen.nl/manual/docblocks.html>`__.
```

This is how Javadoc style looks like::

  /**

>    * Your brief is here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * function(void) changes everything.
```

Author: I don't understand the point behind this suggestion, any reason?

   */
  void function(void);

For line comment, insert a triple forward slash::

>   /// Your brief is here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  /// function(void) changes everything.
```

  void function(void);

And for structured data members, just insert triple forward slash and less-than sign::

>   /// Data type brief.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  /// Data type brief description
```

  typedef struct {
      int member_1; ///< Member 1 description.
      int member_2; ///< Member 2 description.
  } data_type;

Common Doxygen Tags:
++++++++++++++++++++

> 

Reviewer 3: Could we take a stand on common formatting? Doxygen takes `@b BOLD` and some others, but also other styles (like rst and markdown).

Author: I'm not sure about extending this doc to cover format styles, I think it's not necessary the reader can always check doxygen docs. note during the last rebase I had to move the new changes to `source/dev/howto-docs.rst`

of the documentation block is automatically treated as a brief description, since
option `JAVADOC_AUTOBRIEF <https://www.doxygen.nl/manual/config.html#cfg_javadoc_autobrief>`__
is enabled within doxygen configurations.

``@details``

Just like ``@brief`` starts a brief description, ``@details`` starts the detailed description.
You can also start a new paragraph (blank line) then the ``@details`` command is not needed.

``@param``

Starts a parameter description for a function parameter with name <parameter-name>,
followed by a description of the parameter. The existence of the parameter is checked
and a warning is given if the documentation of this (or any other) parameter is missing
or not present in the function declaration or definition.

``@return``

Starts a return value description for a function.
Multiple adjacent ``@return`` commands will be joined into a single paragraph.
The ``@return`` description ends when a blank line or some other sectioning command is encountered.

``@code/@endcode``

Starts/Ends a block of code. A code block is treated differently from ordinary text.
It is interpreted as source code.

``@rst/@endrst``

> Starts/Ends a block of reST markup. Take a look at the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starts/Ends a block of reST markup. 

Example
~~~~~~~
Take a look at the following example:
```

Author: done

.. literalinclude:: examples/doxy_rst.h

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And here is how it is rendered

```

.. doxygenfunction:: doxy_reST_example

2. Feeding Doxygen
------------------

Not all headers files are collected automatically. You have to add the desired
C/C++ header paths within the sub-config files of Doxygen.

Sub-config files have the unique name ``.doxyfile``, which you can usually find near
directories that contain documented headers. You need to create a new config file if

> there's no one located in a path close(2-depth) to the headers you want to add.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
there's not one located in a path close(2-depth) to the headers you want to add.
```

Sub-config files can accept any of Doxygen_ `configuration options <https://www.doxygen.nl/manual/config.html>`__,

> but you should be aware of not overriding or re-initializing any configuration option,
> you must only count on the concatenation operator "+=". For example::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but do not override or re-initialize any configuration option,
rather only use the concatenation operator "+=". For example::
```

   # to specfiy certain headers
   INPUT += @CUR_DIR/header1.h \
            @CUR_DIR/header2.h
   # to add all headers in certain path
   INPUT += @CUR_DIR/to/headers
   # to define certain macros
   PREDEFINED += C_MACRO(X)=X
   # to enable certain branches
   PREDEFINED += NPY_HAVE_FEATURE \
                 NPY_HAVE_FEATURE2

.. note::
    @CUR_DIR is a template constant returns the current
    dir path of the sub-config file.

3. Inclusion directives
-----------------------

Breathe_ provides a wide range of custom directives to allow

> including the generated documents by Doxygen_ into reST files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
converting the documents generated by Doxygen_ into reST files.
```
